Hi, I'm Carlos Morán, we're going to start you
to the third video of explanations of the
geometric dimensions on the measures
geometric that define the
behavior of the cycle part in
circuit and as it is with addition also
on the road if you want to see the videos
previous you can click and you can see
the previous notions that we have given
in that sense we will see in this video
let's explain what the center of
severity and then the suspension
front and rear as regards
geometric concept because the set-up
and the changes we can make to
change behavior on track that
will be given in successive videos more
ahead
center of gravity the center of mass is
let's say the point or the area where the
motorcycle has all concentrated
the synergies in deceleration
Acceleration or right tilt
left is to say very important to
the behavior of what we call in
the load transfer is to say then
the dynamic movement that the
motorcycle in a deceleration or
braking or in an acceleration the center
of gravity of the motorcycle
logically it is fixed dynamically it is not going
to change the site engine or the axes
of positions although if there is a slight
movement in terms of the functions of
suspensions as we will see later
but there is one thing that it does in the
motorcycle the really variable center
dynamically speaking and it's the posture
of the pilot the pilot's position is what
that modifies the center of mass
Moto bike set for better
behavior or behavior more
suitable for each type of driving as
we will see
I repeat again later in videos
successive the center of gravity usually
be approximately very close to
engine because since it is the center of
dough
more influential then it is usually
around the engine normally on motorcycles
r comes to be about
700 millimeters in height with respect to
ground and especially in distance of 3 is
approximately 1,400 millimeters is
say it's almost half the height with
with respect to the wheelbase
that we have spoken before a quality that
we will also talk about later is that
the more distance between axles the
center behaves as if it were
lower and the shorter wheelbase
of the center of gravity behaves like more
high in terms of the dynamic effect of
load transfer
okay now let's explain
within the components of a part
auto cycle Cycle 'is what the
front suspension in this case let's
to explain what is the suspension
front because the adjustments of
front suspension will be explained in
successive videos now the suspension
lead
it can usually be or normally
is usually what we call a telescopic
telescopic is how we see a fork
that the shaft goes up and down through a
telescopic that is modified in its
length there may also be systems of
front suspension in green
telescopic with front swingarm or
with front trapeze like it can be
retreat now pushed but that what
we will explain later we are going to
focus what is a telescopic that
it is 95% of the suspensions that
exist on conventional motorcycles not the
front suspension as the system
Telescopic makes the front axle
have a tour of approximately
120 millimeters in most of the
motorcycle mostly of 600 and 1000 the
tours
is what marks the behavior of the
part cycle is to say the route of
front suspension has to go very
matched with the travel of
rear suspension that we will now see
another important part in the components
of the cycle part of a motorcycle is
logically the rear suspension the
or rear suspension system
back suppression in an immense majority
is the compound by a swingarm
rear the rear swingarm has the
suspension action with basically
also two systems one called
progressive monoshock that is what
what we have here is to say with a system
of a single shock absorber and with a system
of variable progressivity that already
we will explain how to say later on
is the system more carefully and what
adjustments we can make and this is done
so that the rear axle
have a tour also in unison or
as coordinated as possible with the axis
forward as we said before the
travel of the rear axle normally
about will also be about a hundred
they have a route about
120 millimeters in a thousand as it is usually
130 also even up to 140
depending on
the type or brand of motorcycles
So far we have explained the different
components of the part of the cycle
motorcycle in the next video we are going to
explain the dynamic effects of all
those running components that is what
it is the circuit I remind you that I am
your disposition in default before racing
motorcycles a technical service so that
do maintenance or adjustments in
any need you have of the
part of the cycle of agreement chao
ah